# Tricks for Linux in a Personal Computer (maybe useful for servers)
[✏️](https://github.com/meleu/my-notes/edit/master/linux-pc.md)

## Mandatory Packages

```
vim vim-gtk htop tmux xclip jq wget curl
```

## Bootable USB Pendrive

This works for Ubuntu-based distros:

- "Disks" app > select the flash drive in the list on left > three dots on the top right > "Restore Disk Image..." > select the image > Start Restoring...


## Integrity/Authenticity Check

[taken from <https://linuxmint.com/verify.php>]

### Integrity check

To verify the integrity of your ISO image, generate its SHA256 sum and compare it to the one found in the sha256sum.txt file.

In most Linux distributions the SHA256 sum can be generated by opening a terminal and running the following commands:

```
cd
cd ISO
sha256sum -b *.iso
```

The last command should show you the SHA256 sum of your ISO file. Compare it to the one found in the sha256sum.txt. If they match, you've successfully verified the integrity of your ISO image.

Note: If you have coreutils version 8.25 or newer, another way of checking the sum is to ask the sha256sum command to check the file against the sha256sum.txt file, like this:

```
sha256sum --ignore-missing -c sha256sum.txt
```

### Authenticity check

To verify the authenticity of the sha256sum.txt file, we need to check the signature on the sha256sum.txt.gpg file.

1. Import the Linux Mint signing key:

```
gpg --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-key "27DE B156 44C6 B3CF 3BD7  D291 300F 846B A25B AE09"
```

2. Verify the authenticity of the sha256sum.txt file:

```
cd
cd ISO
gpg --verify sha256sum.txt.gpg sha256sum.txt
```

The output of the last command should tell you that the file signature is 'good' and that it was signed with the following key: `27DE B156 44C6 B3CF 3BD7 D291 300F 846B A25B AE09` (with or without spaces).

Note: Unless you trusted this signature in the past, or a signature which trusted it, GPG should warn you that the signature is not trusted. This is expected and perfectly normal.
